# Introduction

This is a design initially created to look a the shape of mains outlets. I design it to check the total harmonic distortion of a generator outlet with a x20 reduction.

It has two inlets to measure two active line with the same neutral, i.e. the signal before and after a power line filter. It is intended to measume only voltage up to a frequency of at least 100kHz without a significative reduction of the signal (under 3db).

The connector is made to be connected to an Analog Discovery Digilent Instrument. It has been design to compensate the internal impedance of this particular instrument (1MOhm, 24pF). If you have one of these you can tune it so it works at it's best.


# Warnings

* This circuit is intended to be use to measure monophasic power mains up to 240Vrms. Such a voltage imply electric risk and only professionals with the right skills and safety protections should use it.

* The neutral of the power outlet under test will be connected to the GND of the instruments in use. Before any use make sure that there is no connection from the GND of the instrument with the protective heart (PE) of your installation.

* If the GND of your instrument is connected to PE you should isolate it using an appropiate method, which could be an isolation transformer.

* Prior to the first use it is necesary to adjust the gain of both channels using resistor trims. See the tune procedure section in this document to understand the procedure.

* If used without a plastic case, provide adecuate means to prevent accidental contact with the AC voltage present by isolating the exposed metal points.

* If unsure about above conditions are met please don't use this design.

* Use under your responsability

* Any damage caused by the use of this design is responsability of the licensed professional using it

# Specifications

After tuned this circuit delivered:
* Two channels connected to scope 1 and 2
* An x20 atenuation in both channels
* AC/DC coupling mode via jumpers selection in each channels
* Impedance matching to obtain an  uniform amplitude and phase frequency response from DC to at least 100kHz
* Protection for overvoltage (varistor) rated to the used device


# Tune procedure

This procedure consist in two tunning procedures and a measurement of the frequency response. The order is important in this procedure. Once tunned at the circuit best. The tunning procedure is made with very low voltages (5V). This is done to prevent any damage to the board or the instrument used. If unexpected volts appear please check the components values before continuing and correct any anomaly. A visual inspection of the board is also recomended to look for short circuits, missing components or bad soldering points.

## Required equipment:
* Personal Computer
* Digilent Analog Discovery (R) Instrument
* Software Digilent Waveforms(R)
* Small isolated flat screwdiver
* Male to male connection leads
* Recomended but not required: multimeter


## Tunning the gain of a channel

Repeat this procedure for channel one and channel two.

1. Connect the jumpers of the channel under test in DC position.
2. Connect a male to male lead from GEN1 to the  in the appropiated input connector with a the pin socket corresponding to the channel under test
3. Connect the extension board to an Analog Discovery Digilent Instrument
4. Using Waveforms>Wavegen generate a DC signal in generator 1 channel of 5 Volts
5. Using Waveforms>Scope or Waveforms>Voltmeter obtain the value at the channel that you are calibrating.
6. Turn the dial on the trim resistor until you obtain 5/20 V (0.25V)

## Tunning the frequency response of a channel

Repeat this procedure for channel one and channel two. Use the channel not being tested as auxiliar channel.

1. Connect the jumpers of each channels in DC position.
2. Connect a male to male lead from GEN1 to the  in the appropiated input connector with a the pin socket corresponding to the channel under test
3. Connect a male to male lead from the channel you are not testing to GEN1
4. Connect the extension board to an Analog Discovery Digilent Instrument
5. Using Waveforms>Wavegen generate an square signal in generator 1 channel of +-5 Volts at a frequency of 10Hz
6. Using Waveforms>Scope obtain a good scope of the rising edge of the signal generated by the waveform generator and the reading in the channel you are adjusting
7. At this point you sould have a signal with an amplitude of 1/20 from the channel under test to the auxiliar channel.
7. Turn the dial on the trim capacitor until you get the smaller posible raising time without overshooting.


## Measurement of the frequency response.

Repeat this procedure for channel one and channel two. Use the channel not being tested as auxiliar channel. Do this after you calibrate the gain and the frequency response. You can do it beforehand to check how wrong the probe was and compare it to an adjusted channel.

1. Connect the jumpers of each channels in DC position.
2. Connect a male to male lead from GEN1 to the  in the appropiated input connector with a the pin socket corresponding to the channel under test
3. Connect a male to male lead from the channel you are not testing to GEN1
4. Connect the extension board to an Analog Discovery Digilent Instrument

5. Using Digilent Waveforms>Network Analyser configure an acquisition from 10Hz to 10MHz and 300 samples

6. Initiate a single acquisition

7. Note down the frequency where the signal drop 3dBs from the 10Hz response. This is the bandwith of your channel

8. Note down the phase at it's minimum and maximum values

9. Repeate the frequency response tunning until you get the best bandwith


# License

Analog Discovery (R) and Waveforms(R) are Digilent trademarks.

The license is described in the file 'LICENSE'.
